# GeneticMazes
To experiment with the standard GA, simply run geneticmazes.py and it will print out the final generation of the evolutionary cycle. You can tweak the number of samples, maze size, generation count, as well as boolean parameters to eliminate the worst candidates and ensure that each parent is only selected once. You can also tweak the fitness parameters to emphasize different qualities. The most important parameter seems to be the weight assigned to BFS. A high value for this coupled with many generations tends to result in about half of the final population being connected (and this might really be a higher proportion before the mutation process is applied to the final generation, which might corrupt pathways with walls 20% of the time).

The CA approach (which can be tested by running cellularautomata.py) did not seem to yield any improvements over the general GA, which treats the mazes themselves as chromosomes/individuals for selection rather than CA rules. Rather, it performed worse in most cases because it had a tendency to fill the space with walls (probably due to the likelihood of having many 1's in the ruleset coupled with the fact that it iterates up to 5 times).

Interestingly, truncation seemed to dramatically reduce the number of fully connected solutions in the final generation, but the results were still "nearly connected." Boosting the connectivity score and upping the generation count did not seem to have much of an impact. Perhaps the loss of genetic diversity is a heavy hit?

Parental uniquity did not seem to have much of an impact overall, but depending on the weighting it might be a good counter-measure to particularly heavy weights (such as a boosted connectedness weight) to prevent over-fitting to top candidates.
